# mywork
This task required using the programme Git.cmd, which is a command line programme. A folder was created on the Desktop titled 'ATU_Coursework' in order to have a folder to save all course work within.  The exercise required the creation of a pands directory and clone files from the url outlined in document lab 1.3 github.pdf. Having navigated to the pands directory the following command was  entered to clone the URL provided.  The command 'git clone https://github.com/andrewbeattycourseware/pands-course-material.git' was used to get all the sample code and save it within pands. Git clone is discussed in https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/about-repositories and it is required for cloning a reporitory into a new directory. Following using the above command all the course material was available in the pands directory.   
Visual studio code application was opened and the pands directory was opened. The above files were visible within this.   I created a folder titled 'mywork' to save any work i completed.  Autosave was then turned on from witin the file menu. This was necessary to ensure all changes were saved as outlined in the video on 'Filesystem and First program'.  The python script 'myworld.py was then created and run within terminal - new terminal , I navigated tot he folder titled mywork using the 'cd mywork' command, I then ran the programme using the command 'python helloworld.py. 
Having watched video 3 I deleted the my work file and created a mywork reporitory on github in order to save a helloworld.py file, readme.md file and gitignore within.  The benefit of using this repository was it allowed me to restrict who had access by making my visibility public or private.  As various changes were made to this reporitory throughout the exercise, I assessed what was asked for in the assignment brief, such as, when the programme is run it must read Hello World!. I initially misread what was asked of me.  In order to complete this task I had to perform a pull request within Git.CMD to pull down mywork folder.  This then allowed me to make changes.  This is discussed in About Repositories section of the above link.  To save changes I used the command 'Git Add .' to save changes to the local directory.  This action is covered in the video in Lecture 'Git and GitHub'. Within the above link the section titled NAME states 'git-add is used to 'add file contents to the index'.  Following this I had to commit the changes to the repository in order for the documents to be visible for correcting.  The above link discusses git-commit and states that it is used to 'Record changes to the repository'.  The rationale for the changes is important, so the full command 'git commit - "reason for the change" ' is utilised.  Finally the changes had to be pushed up to the repository. The above link discusses git-push and states that it is used to 'update remote refs along with associated objects'.  I had to enter my passowrd for changes to be pushed up for security reasons.  I had previously created a password to ensure no other user on my computer could save changes to the repository.  Finally I tested the changes to ensure they were working correctly.  Once this was completed, the changes were checked in github.com

#testType.py file
#testing to determine input class
#Author: Edward Cronin

#having posted issue of file not working, modified entry of 'T' in true based on feedback
#added additional code to get actual class of each input and this displayed class type and value

